The Joe Rogan experience.
I remember watching Mr. Jones on, uh, MTV and,
uh, I love that video, man. And I love that you dancing in that,
was it like a living room or something like that? I'm like,
I want to be that free. Like you seem so loose.
You were so in the moment I remember thinking that I was,
I remember talking to a friend of mine, let, let, uh, that night after a show,
I was at a bar. I was like, you ever see that Mr. Jones video? I go,
when that dude's dancing, I go, I want to like, figure out how to get there.
I want to be that free. But you know, it's a weird thing I used to,
I'm gonna take this off for now. I used to be, for me, you know,
life is often very awkward and uncomfortable,
but not on stage, you know, like on stage, I always felt like, well,
this is the one place on everything I do is fine. Right? So when I started,
you know, making videos at first, it was just like,
this is apps. This is easy because all I got to do is do the stuff I'm can,
I'm gonna do, you know, and, and there's nothing wrong I can do.
I can just be as free as I want. And that lasted about a year and a half,
maybe two years,
something that like getting really famous out of nowhere. And then,
you know, all the kind of backlash that comes with it.
I noticed a couple years later, I was a lot more
self-conscious I'm still on stage.
I never think about anything when I'm playing it. Nothing bothers me.
But in front of cameras,
I got really self-conscious in front of cameras after sometime in the middle of
our second record. I just noticed that I started to suck on not suck on video,
but definitely not like that. Mr. Jones video.
You,
you became aware that so many people were watching and criticizing you or like,
what was it?
I think it was that, you know, cause at first I just, uh,
well didn't care and I just thought that there's nowhere in the world.
I'm more comfortable than here. So I'm fine.
And then I think on our second album,
when we got a lot of backlash and you get a little too big and everybody,
you get, you annoyed the out of people being, you know,
especially cause in a band because you get a really successful song.
They're going to play it on the radio every five minutes after a while,
it's like, God who wouldn't get sick of it, you know?
And then you get some backlash after that. People say some terrible things.
And then, and then I started thinking about like,
what do I look like on film then I got really self-conscious, you know,
what is this pants? Does this look, this song, make my look big. You know, uh,
I noticed that I got kind of crappy in just in front of cameras,
not the rest of the time and not like cameras when I'm on stage at a concert,
like you play a big festival, there's lots of cameras,
nothing bothered me there. It's just kind of sometimes on TV and in, in filming,
I got kind of self-conscious and I'd never been that way, the press.
Stuff like that kind of stuff. I just think so.
I mean, I don't really know what caused it exactly. I would.
The only reason I would say, I think you're right about that is that,
is that it happened then, you know,
and that was the first time I'd experienced that. Cause you know,
no one says anything bad about you when they don't know you exist for one.
And then on our first record, we couldn't buy a bad review, you know? And,
but by our second record it was, we weren't even getting, it was like,
forget him. He's this chick. So I don't have to forget his music, you know?
And then like he got fat, whatever it would be, you know, you start, you know,
when you nationwide, but a national publication, Causey fat.
I remember getting a review in like in England once and somebody called me
poncy as a fish mongers cat,
which I suppose fishmongers cats eat a lot on see like.
Is that like chubby Potsy.
I thought it meant chubby. I assume, I guess, I don't know.
Just sounded bad compared to a fishmonger's cat.
The fact that fishmonger is involved at all as a word,
when they're talking about your cancer, seems like a bad sign, you know?
Yeah. There's a thing that happens, right?
Like when people discover you and they find out about you and you haven't
gotten big yet, like, especially for bands, I think where they,
they, they love the fact that they're the first to tell their friends,
you got to listen to this band, gotta listen to this album. This is awesome.
But then when you get really big and other people like it and too many people
like it, then you're like, ah, man, they were good in the beginning.
I think you're, I mean, I think that music, unlike almost everything else,
it becomes our personal cool, you know, I mean,
we literally wear it on our shirts, you know, and, and it,
it defines who we are.
We talk about this John rhe or that genre as being our gang almost. And when,
when you're discovering stuff. Yeah, it's really cool.
And then when you have to share it with that guy at the water cooler,
who likes that worst music, you know,
that guy who's been coming in for years and he's just listened to outer.
And now he loves your band too. And you're like,
I don't want to share this with captain over there, you know? And, uh.
I've never understood that cause why can't people with terrible taste also like
great things like great things are great, no matter what,
like everybody loves the godfather, right?
It's like whoever says that movie socks, nobody,
but people who like terrible movies still like the godfather.
You know? Well,
I think it's less because they now like it as that you're now as opposed to you
were in a club without them, and now you're in a club with them.
And that just sucks. Cause you didn't have to be in a club with them before.
Right. It's human nature. I mean, I get it.
I didn't like it when it landed on me, but uh, yeah. I mean, I get it well,
and it happened to you.
You pre-social media. Yeah. You were,
you guys were just getting reviewed by experts.
You weren't get on by the general public.
Yeah, no. I mean, but that was kind of, that was a good thing for one,
but I was really into soap. Right? Well it's, for me,
it had happened when I was kind of already into social media because I remember
moving down to LA after our first album and, and that year,
while I was writing the second record, discovering that AOL had these, uh,
like message boards. So this is 95 say,
and I realized that AOL had these forums and message boards for all the bands
and suddenly occurred to me. Well, I could just go on there and talk to people.
Cause when I read it, they were worried about,
were we ever going to make a second record? Where were we going to?
Did we exist anymore? Like what,
all the questions that you wonder about your band between records and it
suddenly occurred to me? Well, I could,
I have the answers to all those questions. You know,
I could just go on there and it took me a little while to convince the people on
there that I was me, but uh, understandably of course,
but eventually I did. And then we sort of started this kind of community there,
uh, you know, way before other social media.
But it occurred to me because the rest of the time you,
you can't get to your fans except through,
or you couldn't then except through the radio, the DJs and the press. So like,
you don't really get to give anybody your own words.
They gotta be filtered through everybody else.
But that AOL thing was a chance to just like, well,
like what Twitter and everything is now. But it occurred to me back then.
It was really cool. And when people started,
then I got in arguments with our own fans. I've always done that.
It's just like, what kind of arguments? Well, you know,
like I don't think I'm who they think I am.
Who do you think they think you are? Um,
a classic rock guy driving around in a pickup truck, uh,
like going to drive in movie theaters because that's this Americana dream vision
of like, we all sit around, you know,
going to drive ins and live in some dream of a Springsteen song.
The Springsteen isn't even any part of, you know,
I would go on there and I'd be like,
have you guys heard the first Justin Timberlake album? It's amazing.
It's got like Timberland and the Neptune's doing all the songs and I would try
and make this thing to tell them like,
you should listen to this it's brilliant music. And they just,
they couldn't grasp the Justin Timberlake thing.
Cause in their mind in sync was the guy at the water cooler. Right. You know?
And so like I would get in these types of nights with them,
like you guys don't know about music. You're just like,
you're in this little niche rigid, you know, you like us.
And I think that's very smart and intelligent shows a lot of wisdom,
but you're limited. You're not getting all these fights with them.
Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free. Only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.